hi folks welcome to dto insurance I
Shashank your host a lot of you have
asked us to review ICI eleate and
compare it with other plans now 3 months
ago we did an in-depth review about
ici's newest comprehensive plan which is
ICI Elevate so in today's video we are
going to compare ICICI Elevate along
with one of our top recommendations
which is HDFC eros's Optima secure so to
help us understand this in detail today
I have with us a familiar face who is
back again the senior program manager
here at ditto suprit hey shashan good to
be back likewise suprit now folks before
we get into the video if you're new here
let me tell you something about ditto
insurance we are an insurance advisory
platform we're backed by zeroa and we
have over 10,000 Plus reviews on Google
Now if you're in the market to
understand which is the best plan for
you be it health or term insurance then
book a free consultation with us under 2
minutes with the link in the description
now with the introduction out of the way
let's get into the video after the video
that went out you know 3 months ago in
the month of uh July uh how has been
people's perception or rather are people
very much asking about ICC elate when
you know they reach out to us uh yes yes
I think Elevate plan has generated a
fair amount of Interest among people uh
thanks to its uh unlimited coverage and
uh lot of add-on options uh yeah lot of
people are keen and they want to compare
it to other plans and see if that is
something that fits their needs let's
get into the details right so ICI
definitely has a lot of features that
are very new so let's start from there H
uh like you said we had a detailed video
3 months back I think we have uh we had
discussed a lot of features um in that
video I think if somebody wants to refer
uh they can probably check out that
video which is in detail so IC Lombard
came up with this new plan Elevate right
recently and the default plan of elevate
uh maybe not the greatest of plans right
now what makes this plan a really good
plan is the choice of addons choice of
add-ons I would say I think another
point is the coverage um so most plans
they have probably up to Once year or 2C
whereas Elevate plan has uh I mean does
not have a limited you can have an
unlimited uh coverage as well um and the
price point as well right now uh the
Elevate plan is priced uh fairly uh
economical compared to some of the
better plans uh probably like secure
that we going to discuss today but even
from a price standpoint right now
Elevate makes it an affordable option to
a lot of customers so um yeah just to
sum it up U it's a it's a good plan um
offers flexibility affordability um and
unlimited coverage option so yeah uh
makes it a really good plan when I went
through the policy brocher they had tons
of add-ons and tons of features that
made it really different correct so
let's let's start by you know listing
them out and you know understanding them
in detail right so there are about U I
think 18 to 20 add-ons if I remember it
correctly and uh few of them I believe
they're game changers right now
something that probably we don't see it
very often um something like sesi and
and usai donor now one can get up to 5
lakh worth of coverage if know for
surrogate mothers or donors and
considering the fact that um know the
cost of these alternate methods are uh
so expensive these days uh it's not a
bad option to consider and and like I
said I don't think I've seen it in many
plans apart from this one and uh yeah
jump start right I think that's worth
mentioning as well know certain
pre-existing conditions like diabetes or
hypertension asthma Etc there are few
others wherein the waiting period
reduces to 30 days again I mean I've
seen this in couple of other plans but
still I mean having this option elevates
the plan I can say from the uh the basic
plan right and uh there are tons of
other options maternity cover is there
and waiting period reductions not just
for pre uh pre-existing conditions but
also for maternity right usually which
is for 2 years you can reduce it to one
year there's a consumables uh addon and
uh yeah tons of others where you can
increase your bonuses so considering all
these options all this uh add-ons right
now depending on one's need um I feel uh
this plan is going to be one of the most
sought after once and in probably in few
cases could be a clear winner as well
right right makes sense of now we spoke
in depth about icic elate now let's
shift the focus to our dear friend HDFC
ero Optima secure now I I know that
there are tons of benefits while ICI
gives you Modern Age benefits HDFC also
gives you certain benefits so let's
let's hear uh something about htfc as
well right so see when we talk about
HDFC or go secure plan right now I think
the focus kind of shifts to htfc Argo
here as a company which brings in a lot
of uh reliability Factor right I mean
has been around for a very long time the
settlement ratios as well uh which is
around 98% um compared to uh Lombard's I
think it's around 85% um slightly lower
than uh industry average um so this is
what htfc Argo brings to the table uh
features wise I would say they have uh
some really solid features some standard
features but from an add-on perspective
uh I don't think uh no secure
um has done enough here compared to the
Elevate plan for example secure has very
few add-on options has um unlimited
restoration option and has a cash
benefit um you know if again it's not
something that we recommend on a regular
basis and has a critical illness uh
cover as well as an add uh but apart
from this right um know the adults that
we spoke about uh in Elevate like
reduction in uh waiting periods which
which can be really crucial for certain
use cases um know we see that missing in
HDFC go keeping that aside if you just
compare the uh basic the default plan
right now minus the add-ons uh I think
secure will probably come out as a
winner here um because secure has uh
inbuilt consumables uh the bonus is
really good um and the standard feature
of secure is the 2x benefit right now uh
if I buy a 10 lakh plan today uh
straight away I get covered for 20 lakhs
uh that's the 2x secure benefit um and
uh has the restoration benefit and uh
the bonus inbuilt um a good amount of uh
bonus as well yeah like I said uh if you
just compare the default plan um secure
will probably come out as the winner uh
but if you compare it with the add-ons I
feel U yeah El Elevate plan uh know on
paper comes out to be the winner that's
a very interesting perspective that you
gave because in my mind mind I thought
that uh HDFC would emerge as a winner
regardless of uh any situation but you
know you shifted the focus on on add-ons
so yeah with this it makes sense that
ICC has tons of features to offer 1920
add-ons you said right so just to give
you uh an example right now let's say I
want to cover a plan for my parents for
example and and usually parents U who
are in the age group of say 60 plus uh
generally they have certain uh um
pre-existing conditions maybe something
like blood pressure or diabetes or
something right now let's say now if I
have to consider a secure plan HDFC go
secure plan the waiting periods are
about 3 years here whereas if I consider
the Elevate plant The Waiting periods
can be reduced uh it can be reduced to
up to uh 30 days as well right now uh I
mean I feel that uh maybe there's a fair
chance that I would pick an Elevate plan
over secure plan given the context but
um at the same time let's say somebody
like you right now who is in their early
20s um and uh um I mean t but I'm
assuming that there are no pre-existing
conditions so for somebody like you uh
probably uh htmc Areo secure might make
a better sense uh given the fact that uh
you know I have the peace of mind that
know this company is probably a bit more
reliable the settlement ratios are
better and and this is something I may
not need it today right I mean this is
something that I'm trying to build over
a period of time um and U yeah I mean
yeah probably somebody like you can
consider a a secure plant who doesn't
have to depend on waivers in Waiting
periods or on those understood now both
these plans have there pros and cons let
let's get to the cons a little later but
there are some bases that both of these
plans have covered so uh let's speak
about that yeah good question I think I
think uh ICI and HDFC cor right now both
companies have been around for more than
20 years so in that context I think um I
mean I I would always recommend my cents
as well uh go with a company which has
been around for a very long time I'm not
saying that some of the companies that
have come in the last few years are not
doing well uh it's just that companies
who have been around for a very long
time they are operationally strong
whereas companies that have recently
come up you know they still figuring out
their operations uh things like uh post
purchase uh request things like post
application right now uh I I see that um
companies like Ergo and lombar right now
they are much more sorted I feel uh
compared to some of the newer companies
um so in that context I feel always
consider plant that has been around for
a very long time so ticks the Box both
these companies um and uh terms of
coverage as well right now um now this
is one of the usual questions that I get
asked what is the cover that I have to
go for when I'm buying a health
insurance to be honest there's no no
right answer to this you can't really
scientifically measure what is the exact
cover one would need uh like how we do
in probably term insurance plan uh so
what we generally say here is a minimum
of a 10 lakh cover uh a minimum right
now maximum There's No Limit because we
don't know we can't really predict uh
know what will happen or that 1% 2%
chance that we might need 50 lakh or
above or if you consider inflation say
20 years later we might need CR 2 CR you
never know there's no limit to that so
ICI Lombard is offering um know the
unlimited coverage here right now
infinite coverage uh which takes that
box uh if I'm someone if I'm okay to
spend few more bucks and want to have
this option why not I mean so other than
that uh there is no co-payment option uh
in both these policies so most likely
the insurers are going to settle the
complete amount uh when Whenever there
is a claim both these plans they cover
aush uh do treatments um organ donor
ambulance covers right now some of this
basic stuff is covered in both these
plants yeah coverage as well right now
one CR Plus in both these covers and
like I said blumar has an unlimited
option as well so yeah pretty much uh
takes most of the boxes there what
you're seeing is basically these both
plans are giving you the basic coverage
that's that we would need in any health
insurance that's right I think uh I mean
can be considered right if somebody is
looking for health insurances uh I think
both both these PL should make it to the
top five at least yeah all right now
let's come to the pain point which is
pricee and uh we know that HDFC is known
to be pricey and at this point it's one
of their features you know being pricey
but let's still analyze the price points
of both these plans so right one of the
most important factors I think one
considers right now before purchasing
anything price price is something that
is going to play a crucial role in the
decision um and uh again I think Elight
comes out to be a winner in this aspect
as well it's it's priced really
economically compared to the Argo plans
like you said uh argo's plans are
generally expensive I don't blame them
right I mean they have an exceptional
track record when it comes to settlement
ratio so which means that they give back
uh uh I mean in terms of volumes they
settle a lot of claims and they settle a
lot of money uh and they have to
probably compensate that in some way and
and probably they do it by uh having the
premium slightly on the highest side but
again from a consumer standpoint now I
probably want to buy something that fits
in my budget now budget is really
important uh even even if I see value uh
but if it is not falling in my budget
then probably it's not the uh it's not
something that I would go for end of the
day right so let's take an example right
now somebody who is single uh I think um
if if one is buying an elate plan and
I'm probably considering just the uh
base plan here um not with any add-ons U
so the difference in premium is about 70
75% uh HDFC is uh 70 75% higher uh
compared to the Elevate plan and uh when
we consider a family plan a family
floater let's say parents and two kids
Argo here is costlier by about 50 to 60%
um again probably this percentage will
reduce because I'm sure you know just
the default base plan right in in
Elevate is is not the lest one so I
probably will end up choosing some
add-ons here just to make it more
comprehensive and uh
thereby even after that right even after
that I'm seeing a good 30 40% difference
in the premiums got it supr I I get the
figures but for the sake of our viewers
can you give me the exact figure how
much um iic Elevate would cost someone
who's living in a tier one City versus
uh you know HDFC
got it I mean I may not know the exact
numbers but I can give you a fair idea U
somebody who is 28 to 30 years old right
now if they're buying a 10 lakh policy
in Secure it costs about 15K whereas in
the IC Lombard plan it costs about 8K um
so a good uh 70 80% uh difference is
what you can U notice again these are
not exact numbers I mean the difference
is pretty evident right I mean I don't
consider other options like the company
metrics or the settlement metrics I
think I'll be more inclined towards
going with Elevate yeah understood now
we've covered what's great we've covered
how much it costs to get these plans
we've also covered the basic coverages
of both plans now not every plan is
perfect so let's take a quick look at
the drawbacks why would one step back
from getting an htfc plan and why would
one hesitate to buy an IC eleate plan
right good question I think um so htfc U
or go secure plan now why will I not buy
it now if I'm someone who is working
around a budget uh probably I would not
buy a secure plan somebody who has
pre-existing conditions uh who is not
willing to wait for um 3 years right um
so sometimes U see some of us have
corporate covers as well now if I have a
corporate cover that is covering me or
my family or my parents or somebody and
I'm considering a retail plan I'm okay
to wait for 3 years and it is still five
right now if if I'm someone who doesn't
have any backup plan and completely
relying on my health insurance then uh
probably waiting probably is is not
something that I would be comfortable
doing uh and hence probably I would not
be considering a secure plan and
something like mity benefits right now
there's a a good reason why I would
probably go to elevate and not secure
secure does not cover for mity benefits
at all uh not even in the default plan
uh nor as an add-on that's that's one
more reason and um yeah like I said
earlier as well right now fertility
treatment is something that is not
covered inse secure so there are a lot
of these add-ons you know which uh
attract a certain type of audience right
now uh depending on my need uh what is
best suited to me uh if I find that as
an option in Elevate uh then I more
inclin to go towards elate Elevate plan
um not the secure plan um similarly what
what what is the downside of um say a
Lombard plan um I would I would probably
U say the company's metrics right now if
only if only now Elevate plan had a good
settlement ratio um and a lower
complaints ratio yeah yeah sorry I think
I I probably didn't mention this now
htfc go has a slightly better metric
when it comes to the complaints average
complaints uh number as well right so
again coming back uh yeah I wish Elevate
had better settlement ratio now if if it
had something you know above 90 or
probably above 95 uh I think that would
be the go-to plan for everyone um
probably this is one of the reason why
people will second guess uh the Elevate
plan certainly I think Lombard also uh
has few uh disadvantages one of the main
things I think this plan has um a room
rent restriction right now uh we always
uh suggest people to go with plats which
has absolutely no kind of restriction
but here here up to single private room
category is something that one can
choose still not a disaster I would say
um for someone who is okay with this
category the only problem will be to uh
keep a track of it right now um one
should always have this um you know one
should always remember this uh or the
family should remember this because by
mistake I mean if somebody chooses a
higher category room so one would end up
spending a lot from their pockets so if
one is okay with this uh not a bad
option
in addition to that just the base plan
of the Elevate plan um doesn't serve the
purpose I feel I mean yeah just the
price point I mean it's economical but
other than that I don't think it is
making it a more comprehensive plan uh
you might have to choose um a certain
add-ons to make it even more
comprehensive uh I think that's another
disadvantage to this plan I think uh so
coming to the metrics uh I think this is
where the consumers uh are a bit LED
down uh I can say because uh the
settlement ratio uh is about
85% um less than the average um and um
the average complaints ratio is about 9
per 10,000 claims and uh again slightly
higher than um secure or some of the
other uh companies as well uh number of
network hospitals U which is about
around 7 and a2k if I'm not wrong
compared to 11,500 plus of of HDFC Areo
so all these aspects company wise know
when you look at the metrics I feel uh
Lombard can do much better I think uh
85% settlement ratio I feel uh most of
the times I think this is the deal
breaker uh for them if only Lombard had
uh um better settlment ratio um I feel I
mean I would be really comfortable
recommending this plan as a go-to plan
right um um I think this is uh the only
thing stopping it from being probably uh
the most uh
preferred plan even here at ditto um but
uh if things improve in the future if
settlement numbers improve uh uh yeah I
you shouldn't be surprised uh if people
atto recommending uh Elevate plan as
well all right so so we have mostly
covered all the bases of uh you know of
the comparison that we've done until now
so finally what does ditto recommend
between ICI Elevate and HDFC Optimus
secure hope uh I won't be attacked in
the comment section for doing this I'm
sure uh both companies uh have their uh
fan following uh but honestly um I think
it completely depends on the need okay
um I don't want to uh sound biased
towards any particular company or policy
um here at ditto we recommend uh the
secure plan over Elevate plan uh that's
purely because we believe in the
settlement process right I mean that for
me individually as well and and and and
and from the company's uh standpoint as
well it all boils down to claims now the
plan might look really impressive on
paper but what really matters to me is
at the time of claims now is a company
um Coming good or not right the feeling
of which I get from OU uh with those
settlement numbers and our own
experiences of uh settling claims
through them uh but at the same time uh
I don't want to dismiss Elevate as well
certain use cases now like I said now
maternity or pre-existing conditions and
uh now when I consider these use cases
probably find more value in recommending
an Elevate plan over a secure plan as
well at the same time but each to their
own now one has to decide what they're
okay with are features more important to
me um is the company's metrics more
important to me um again premiums as
well what is the budget that I'm working
with if if something when I'm not able
to stretch uh but suprit which one would
you choose for myself yeah okay I
already have one but uh assuming I don't
have one and have to pick one of these
two um it's a bit tricky but probably I
would call up uh the guys I did to find
out guys you heard suprit so if you have
a doubt if your current insurer is good
for you or if you want to Port to a new
insurance then you know just find the
link in the description and then we can
help you out with advisers like suprit
and his able members so they will
quickly help you with uh pting with
understanding your current insurer and
seeing which plan is the best for you
now suprit thank you so much for
spending a lot of time with us today
diving really deep into the nuances of
uh HDFC go Optima secure versus ICI
elate now I'm going to see you in the
next video uh suprit thanks thanks yeah
thank you thank you suprit now folks uh
if you like this video drop a like uh
subscribe if you haven't uh because
we're coming out with more and more
number of comparison videos for you and
comment if you have any questions and
suprit will personally answer them this
time uh and folks as always happy
Insurance hunting